********************************************************************************

 			          XRCed README

********************************************************************************

Installation on UNIX
--------------------

XRCed was developed using Python 2.1.1. xml.dom.minidom module should be
available. XML support requires Expat package (http://expat.sourceforge.net),
and you have to uncomment expat lines in Modules/Setup file of Python source:

EXPAT_DIR=$(HOME)/expat
pyexpat pyexpat.c -I$(EXPAT_DIR)/xmlparse -L$(EXPAT_DIR) -lexpat

wxPython version used was 2.3.1, which itself uses wxGTK 2.3.1. wxPython
should be modified to support some extra functions. To update it, go to
wxPython source directory and untar "wxPython-update.tgz" (included with
xrced) file there. Then recompile (run "b 21" for example) it and install as
usual (or you can set your environment to use it from the source tree).


Short manual
------------

To start xrced, change to the directory where you installed it and run
"python2.1 xrced.py".

To create an object, first you should select some object in the tree (or the
root item if it's empty) then press the right mouse button and select right
(in another sense now :) ) command. The pulldown menu is context-dependent on
the selected object.

XRCed tries to guess if new object should be added as a next sibling or a
child of current object, depending on the possibility of the object to have
child objects and expanded state (if tree item is collapsed, new object will
be sibling). You can change this behavior to create siblings by pressing and
holding the Control key before clicking the mouse.

Same applies for copy/paste, but at the moment Control key is ignored.

Panel on the right contains object properties. Properties which are optional
should be "checked" first. XMLID of the object is the textbox to the right of
the class name.

All properties can be edited as text, and some are supplied with special
editing controls.

To display the preview window double-click a top-level object (you should
assign an XMLID to it first). After that, if you select a child object, it
becomes highlighted, and if you change it, preview is updated when you select
another item or press Ctrl-R (refresh). To turn off automatic update, toggle
"View->Auto-refresh" or toolbar auto-refresh button (to the right of refresh
button).


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright 2001 Roman Rolinsky <rolinsky@mema.ucl.ac.be>
